Friendly mobs and players near a Campfire slowly regenerate lost health.
On top of regenerating a small amount of health, Campfires slightly boost all other health regeneration buffs you have.
Consider boosting your natural health regeneration with buffs from e.g. Campfires, Heart Lanterns, or any relevant accessories.
Wolves cannot enter The Nether. Just kidding, they totally can.
Every milestone you achieve will permanently change your world for the worse. Or better, if you like changes.
Tired of the hot flames of The Nether? Why not build a portal out of Glowstone?
9 Eyes and you can ascend to Godhood.
A lot of vanilla materials are renewable, which is awesome if you don't like manual labor.
Struggling early-game? Put some Cobblestone in a Millstone and then wash the result using a Fan placed behind flowing water to get some Iron Nuggets. It's a relatively simple early-game farm.
There are like 4 or more different painting mods in ADJ. Perfect if you love decorating interiors.
Want to create your own Music Discs? Smelt any exising disc and then re-record it at an Etching Table!
Expierience Obelisks can be used to store up to 50 Experience levels. You can store/retrieve any amount of levels at any time, or pump them into any Liquid Tank to store even more Experience at once.
Use code 'kohara' during checkout for a 25% discount on your first month with BisectHosting!
Looking to remove a specific enchant? Craft a Precision Dispeller - the cooler cousin of a Grindstone.
If you hate how slow Spawner EXP farms are, look into something known as 'Bibliophages'.
Default campaign is not enough for you? Try Hardcore and see how far apart you can space your deaths.
Dying in Hardcore no longer deletes your world. You can choose to respawn and keep suffering.
Hardcore mode? More like For The Worthy mode!
Weapons which occupy both hands tend to ditch out more damage than single-handed ones.
Most enchantments had their max level reduced. For example, Fortune and Looting have a max level of 1 and Efficiency has a max level of 3.
Every item has massively increased durability and has an innate chance to not lose any when used.
Unbreaking enchantment doubles an item's maximum durability.
Repairing your gear at an Anvil will only cost you up to 4 Experience levels.
Mobs can notice you from much further away and are a lot smarter than in Vanilla, so think twice before diving into a horde of Zombies.
Having FPS problems? Reducing your graphic settings usually helps, but you can also try allocating more RAM to the game. 10 - 12 gigabytes is recommended.
Hold M to open your player menu. In it you can find e.g. things related to shaders and voice chat.
Having any form of a healing spell in your Spellbook is always a good idea, regardless of how quirky or miniscule you make it.
A healing spell in your Spellbook can be built in a way that allows you to heal other mobs/players.
There are fish in the lava oceans in The Nether. You can try to fish them out once you craft a Fishing Rod capable of doing so.
There are many different schools of magic. You can choose to major in one to receive boosts to spells coming from it. Or you can go for a bunch of smaller boosts to a few!
The earlier you start getting into generating Mana, the earlier you can run some incredibly useful farms, like an actual Ore farm to make mining obsolete forever.
Late-game, you can move a Shulker Spawner from an End City and turn it into a mana-making reactor using Shulk Me Nots!
You can right-click crops to harvest them. Saying it just before you test it out yourself.
Nightmare Stalkers will start materializing in the nighttime as soon as you enter The Nether.
Undead Armies happen when you kill 400 undead mobs in total, or after using an Undead Battle Standar.
All accessories share the same slot type, so the combo potential is seemingly infinite.
You can't equip two of the same accessories.
Waystones are a mid-game way of getting from one place to another in a matter of seconds. They are however a bit complicated when it comes to crafting them.
Waystones can only be broken with a pickaxe with a Tool Power of 5.
Tool Power indicates what blocks the tool can destroy. For example, Obsidian can only be broken with tools that have 4 or more Tool Power.
Mobs that are currently targetting you will have an indicator above their head.
If you don't see some items you know already in your recipe browser - don't worry! You unlock more and more of them the further you progress.
Sneak and right-click a Chest with both hands empty to pick it up. You can then place it back anywhere you want. It works with some smaller animals too!
Does your inventory feel too small? Craft a Bundle, a Sack or a Backpack!
Bundles can hold up to 999 items, but some take up more slots than others.
Backpacks can be upgraded a few separate times to increase the amount of inventory space they give.
Enchant your backpacks with Soulbound enchant to not lose them once you die.
Just in case all the painting mods weren't enough, you can also make your own ones by crafting a Blank Canvas and a Palette.
Spider Webs will break after a short while if you walk into them.
If screenshots don't do it for you, you can craft a Camera to capture all of your moments in-game and then place the photos anywhere you want in your world.
Mutant monsters will start spawning naturally whenever you pick up the Eye of Cinders, or as soon as the game starts if you are playing Hardcore.
An Alloy Forge is the easiest way of processing your ores to get more materials out of them.
You can crush raw ores in a Millstone into dust, sometimes getting more in the process. Ore dusts can be smelted into ingots.
Stone Tools have been removed and replaced with ones made of Copper. They're objectively better, so I'd say it's a worthy tradeoff.
Rumors say there is a frozen maze in the coldest regions of the Oceans... And other rumors say the ghost of a fallen captain haunts it...
Blood Moons happen every once in a while, causing more mobs to crawl out to the surface. Seek cover and hide during those twisted nights.
Harvest Moons cause crops to grow faster and yield more than usual.
During Slimy Moons, Slimes will spawn everywhere on the surface. Great if you need plenty of Slime Balls.
Blue Moons are so rare that you can say that they happens once in a... hehe... blue moon.
Every season lasts 90 in-game days, or about 36 real life hours.
Days last 24 minutes instead of 20 in ADJ, purely so that 1 seconds in real life translates to 1 minute in-game.
Construction Wands can help you build your dream base quicker. The Infinity Wand is the most efficient at its job and lasts forever!
Jumping down on your target no longer critically hits. Critical chance is a separate stat that can be increased with various means.
Every item can only have up to 3 Enchantments at once. Curses don't occupy those slots, but instead add them, so it's a risk-reward type of scenario.
You can craft a Nature's Compass to easily locate any biome you want to visit.
There are a ton of different accessories for you to choose from, so feel free to experiment with what suits your playstyle more!
A Tinker's Workshop can be used to merge some accessories together to combine or upgrade their effects.
A lot of potion effects have been nerfed. Resistance and Speed are half as efficient and Strength is now a percentage bonus instead of a flat boost.
A Target Dummy can help you measure your damage, allowing you to test out and compare different weapons.
Some crops and saplings will grow much slower certain Seasons. Keep that in mind while setting up your farms.
You can build greenhouses to grow crops out of their fertile seasons. Simply make sure that they are placed directly under a Glass Block.
Enchanting Tables allow you to select which enchantments you enchant your items with.
Did you see all of the new death messages yet?
Did you see all of the new death messages yet? I mean I'm pretty sure you did, the difficulty is pretty high tbh.
ADJ doesn't support any language other than English (US), so please don't ask me for adding any language support OR reporting any language problems if you do somehow change it.
Dandelifeons and Shulk me Nots are all good ways to produce lots of Mana late-game.
Rumors say this pack was made by a gay furry approaching their 20s :3
You can place a Pet Bed and assign your furry companion to it to allow it to respawn when slain!
You can't hurt your own pets. At least you shouldn't be able to, according to the mods included.
Remember to take breaks while playing!
Stay hydrated and take breaks while playing!
Don't stare at the screen for too long! Take a break and go for a walk around your room!
Place down an Inventory Connector and attach a Storage Terminal to it to create a basic and infinitely expandable storage system.
Storage Lecterns are easy to setup, relatively cheap, and can be a decent early-game storage solution.
Loot chests in structures can be looted by every player in your world, not just whoever finds them first.
Nights are very dark in ADJ, so make sure you're always carrying a Torch or a Lantern with you at all time.
An easy way to generate lots of Mana that requires minimum resources and upkeep are Hydroangeas.
Thermalillies generate a lot of Mana while they are active, but go on a 5 minute cooldown afterwards. The amount of energy generated outweights the cooldown though.
Waterwheels are the best stress source. Change my mind.
Windmills have been buffed to spin at twice the speed they normally would in an average modpack with Create mod.
You can spin water wheels horizontally instead of vertically, if you're into that sort of thing.
I asked Discord for tips and got this.
You can change the wood type of a Large Waterwheel if you right-click it with the new wood type you'd like.
Water freezes during winter, plan machines accordingly.
You can craft a Lucky Horseshoe that eliminates fall damage as soon as you enter the Nether.
Different arrow types, in addition to having different on-hit effects, have different damage values.
If an item can't be crafted through a Crafting Table, try finding it in other tabs in your recipe browser.
Gravitite Ore is the easiest to find at the bottom of islands in the Aether.
Don't forget to use accessories and improve them as you progress! They help a ton.
Aerogel acts as an explosion-resistant, transparent block.
Days in the Aether last 3 times longer than in the Overworld.
Aether Altars can repair damaged items and enhance existing items. They use Ambrosium Shards as fuel.
You can easily automate Ambrosium with Orechids - just give them some Holystone.
Bouncy Cloud Blocks are a funny alternative to Launch Pads.
Weird Cloud Blocks are sort of a polar opposite to Bouncy Cloud Blocks - they will push anything passing them down with extreme velocities.
The Champs and Champettes are pretty baller.
Always check your surroundings before entering a fight.
Don't leave your house without closing the doors.
Don't fear the Creepers. They can't spawn outside of Caves.
Golden, Poison, and Enchanted Darts are not affected by gravity.
'Easier' rarely equals to 'more fun'.
Never dig straight down. Unless you know what you're doing.
The best time to do anything is before it's too late. The earlier you do it, the earlier you're going to see the effects.
If a drop looks too big, it probably is. Fall damage accumulates like crazy.
Dungeons in The Aether can contain extremely powerful and unique rewards. They have various difficulties: Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum.
Gravitite can be forged into powerful armor and tools. The full armor set will negate fall damage. The tools can levitate blocks with right-click.
Never expect that nothing will happen while you're gone.
The leaves of Golden Oak trees occasionally drop Golden Apples. Their logs also yield valuable Golden Amber.
You can harvest Aechor Plant's poison with Skyroot Buckets.
Holystone tools occasionally generate Ambrosium Shards.
Icestone freezes water into Ice and lava into Obsidian.
Some chests are only pretending - they are mimics!
You can always come back later and mine some more.
Moa Eggs can be incubated into baby Moas with the Incubator.
Baby Moas will stay put when right clicking them with a Nature Staff.
Parachutes auto-activate when falling off an island in The Aether. Golden Parachutes have 20 total uses rather than one.
Try submerging yourself in water while wearing Phoenix armor. Something comical will happen.
Placing a Saddle on Flying Pigs turns them into a mount.
You can craft a Mount Bell to be able to 'store' and recall your mount at any time.
Be careful not to misclick when building portals.
Quicksoil increases the speed of walking mobs and sliding items. It also prevents players from sneaking.
Asphalt increases movement speed of anything running on top of it.
Raw meat is not really better than no meat. All raw meat items have a chance to cause additional hunger loss!
A Skyroot Remedy Bucket for poison can be obtained by enchanting poison.
Always treat modders with respect. Even if the mod is mediocre at best.
Don't take huge risks far from home, unless you don't value your inventory.
Sheepuff occasionally puff their wool out, making them float.
A shelter made of dirt is still a shelter.
Slimes do exist... I think. In fact, they might even have an entire night dedicated to them...
Always keep a spare stack of blocks in your inventory.
The modpack is only as fun as you make it.
When Valkyries are defeated they will drop a Victory Medal. With enough of them, you can challenge their Queen to a duel.
Watch where you step - deep shafts can be anywhere.
Cloud Blocks prevent fall damage when landed upon.
Zanite tools gain strength the more they are used.
Zephyrs shoot Snowballs with a force that can throw you off islands.
Undead mobs are damaged by health potions and healed by damage potions.
Zombies, Skeletons, and Spiders are all immune to poison damage.
Villagers will become witches when struck by lightning. Similar behavior extends to a few other mobs as well!
Hatching chicken eggs can spawn four chickens on very, very rare occasions.
Lava will spread faster and further in The Nether.
The Sun, Moon, and Stars all move towards the west.
Zombies sometimes spawn with their head encased in Slime - useful if you need any for your contraptions!
You can deflect Ghast Fireballs by attacking them.
Spiders, Silverfish, Bees, Endermites, Shulkers and Creepers all take extra damage from Lurker's Bane enchantment.
Large fossils are buried under swamps and deserts. Myths say they are relics of [REDACTED].
Sneaking/Crouching will prevent you from falling off the side of blocks.
Placing a Campfire beneath a Bee Nest will make those Bees passive.
Lava Buckets can be used as fuel in the Furnace, smelting up to 100 items per Bucket.
Old Wooden tools can be used as fuel in the Furnace.
Most metal tools can be smelted back into half an ingot.
Piglins really love gold. They seem extra fond of the special Midas Gold.
The lower a dog's tail, the less health they have left.
You can heal your tamed dogs by feeding them any meat.
You can lure animals into following you by holding a food they like.
Wet sponges will immediately dry when placed in The Nether.
Boats have two passenger slots, of which one can be replaced with a Chest.
Building a Boat is probably one of the funniest recipe changes I've made.
Fun fact: Shulkers are considered a type of Golem.
The instrument of a Note Block is determined by the block underneath it.
Some mobs have innate defense points, even if they aren't wearing any armor.
Undead mobs will not burn in daylight if they are wearing a helmet.
Iron Golems can be healed with Iron Ingots. They also slowly regenerate life on their own.
Turtles only drop scutes when a baby grows into an adult.
Feeding baby animals will make them grow up faster.
Snowballs will briefly freeze the mob they hit, slowing them down.
Fishing up Crates is a good way of farming extra resources.
By placing a boat in lava you can make a temporary platform.
Creepers are afraid of cats and will run away from them.
Falling blocks like sand and gravel instantly break when falling onto a torch.
4 String or Cotton can be combined in a 2x2 crafting grid to make Wool.
Barrels are a convenient alternative to chests.
Chests and Barrels can be upgraded with resources, increasing their storage capacity.
If a Skeleton's or Stray's arrow kills a Creeper, the Creeper drops a random music disc.
A red mooshroom will become a brown mooshroom (and vice versa) when struck by lightning.
Beds no longer explode in The Nether and The End. You can no longer cheese certain things, just get better.
Some blocks can reduce fall damage. For example, Hay Bales and Beds.
Interacting with a bed Bed will change your spawn point.
You can sleep in a Bedroll to skip the night without changing your respawn location.
Coarse Dirt can be converted into normal dirt by tilling it with a Hoe.
Piglins are scared of Soul Fire, including Soul Torches, Soul Campfires and Soul Lanterns.
Goats can be milked using a bucket. I actually didn't know that until I found out by accident.
Be careful around Goats. They like to push players and other animals off cliffs.
Pointed Dripstone placed below Lava will slowly drip lava particles, which can slowly fill Cauldrons placed underneath.
Fish and Axolotls can be safely picked up using buckets.
Renaming a bucket with a mob inside will rename that mob as well.
Axolotls like to eat Tropical Fish.
Honeycombs can be used to wax Copper Blocks, which prevents them from oxidizing.
Azalea trees grow above Lush Cave. Digging down next to one will lead you to that biome!
You cannot leave The End without defeating the Ender Dragon.. or dying.
It takes roughly 4 minutes to break an obsidian block by hand.
You can harvest infinite snowballs from a snow golem's trail.
Mushrooms can only be placed on blocks where there's no direct sunlight.
Hostile mobs cannot spawn in a mushroom biome.
You can shear a Mooshroom to turn it into a normal Cow.
Zombies dislike it when you stab them with a sword.
If you stay under water too long you may drown.
Like any items, buckets will burn in lava, but not when it is IN the bucket.
Wither Skeletons are known to lose their heads.
There is a small chance that an Endermite will spawn when an Ender Pearl lands.
Chunk Loaders can be crafted, they will load chunks even when you are away from your base.
Small Water Wheels produce 256 Stress Units. Large Water Wheels Produce 512 Stress Units, but spin twice as slow.
You can dual wield weapons, and in the process they both attack slightly faster when combined.
Recall Potions will teleport you back home. You can find them in chests, or you can craft them.
